# MobileArchitectAndProgramming
## Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The goal of this project was to create an android application for tracking daily weight changes. It required a database to store daily weights, user login information, and the goal weight. Other requirements were screens for logging into the app,a screen with a grid to display all the daily weights and the days they were entered, and mechanisms to add daily weights, add a goal weight, and notify the user when they reach their goal weight. This app was designed to address the need for the user to keep track of their weight changes on a daily basis while trying to reach a goal weight.

## What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
To support the user needs I needed screens to display the daily weights entered, a screen to enter a new daily weight, a screen to log in to the app, and a screen to show progress towards the goal weight. I designed the UI to be user-friendly, simple, and intuitive. The main focus of the app is adding a daily weight so that functionality is made prominent on the home screen with a floating action button. The weight data is easily digestible on a history screen, displaying all the daily weights in an easy to read grid. This design is successful because it gets the user to the information they need in very little taps and the navigation is intuitive.

## How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
After creating the design document and deciding what screens and features the app would require I started by creating all the UI and navigation elements for the app. Seperating the UI design from the business logic made it much easier to tackle the project in smaller steps. Implementing UI changes as I went along became easier because there was no business logic that needed to be changed at the same time. Once the UI was set I added all the business logic to meet the requirements of the app. This step was made easier by having the UI set already. Seperating the front end UI work and the back end business logic into different steps is a technique that will be very useful for any future projects I do.

## How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
While working on the UI I tested the navigation to ensure that each button or swipe navigated correctly to each view. I also looked at it from a user perspective and assessed the intuitiveness of the UI as I went and tested that every screen was easily accessible and made sense to the user. This revealed some flaws with my initial design and lead to me making some UI changes. While working on the business logic I unit tested of the functions to make sure that they all worked correctly. I then did integration testing to make sure everything worked correctly as a whole.

## Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
Since we were using a local database to store user information and weight data it was a challenge trying to store settings such as the logged in user. Typically, I would use an authentication system to store user data and the logged in user but this project was simpler. To overcome this challenge I decided to use device store to save the logged in user id in a file. While it is not perfect, using the shared preferences for the app as a cookie store for the logged in user worked. If I was continuing to develop the app for release I would implement a proper authorization system.

## In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
The home screen demonstrate my knowledge and skills quite well. I went above and beyond the project requirements by implementing a progress bar that displays the progress towards the goal weight as well as the percentage of completion. I also added stats for the total weight loss required, total weight loss so far, and total weight loss remaining. All of these stats required implementing special functions on the view model to calculate the stat correctly. I used LiveData and Transformations from the Android sdk to update this data as the daily weight data changed.
